---
layout:     post
title:      "Feedin Back"
date:       2014-10-19 12:00:00
author:     "Ricky Thomas"
header-img: "img/post-bg-01.jpg"
---

<p>At the outset of DevBootcamp, there's a ton of talk about being a team player and being able to provide feedback that is actionable, specific, and kind. This is an extremely important skill to have in any business. So, over the past 5 weeks throughout the first half of phase 0, we've been pairing up a few times a week with other DevBootcamp boots. After we complete a coding challenge together, we are asked to give anonymous feedback which is then rated (by other boots) and sent if it's actionable, specific and kind. At first I considered this to be kind of annoying. I didn't mind writing up a short bit of feedback for my partners, but rating other peoples feedback? I felt maybe that was best left to the teachers. But at DevBootcamp, everyone's a teacher.</p>
<h3 class="section-heading">Pairing is Caring</h3>
<p>In today's world, the technology that we have at our fingertips blows my mind at every turn. The idea that I'm able to work on a challenge for class sitting in my living room with someone else sitting in their's on the other side of the country (and sometimes the world) is great! It's been a pretty cool experience for me so far getting really familiar with these technologies, but what's been even more cool has been getting familiar with some of the other boots.</p>
<p>DevBootcamp is such a new type of educational experience for me that I've been thrilled every chance I've had to talk to someone else who's embarking on the same endeavor. Each time I've met someone we usually spend a solid ten minutes getting to know one another before we dive in. I've found this to be a great part of the process. It's really great to have access to a group of peers going through the same crazy learning experience. Every person has a different story and all of them are super interesting!</p>
<p>Once we get into the challenges things usually go pretty smoothly. Only once or twice have a pair and I come to a point where I've felt really frustrated. It's never with my pairing partner, but with the challenge itself and occasionally with my computer and the sometimes shoddy internet. However, it's been great that each time frustration arises my partners and I have been able to overcome! We've been able to stay calm, keep on task, and solve the problem. And maaaaan does that feel good! There have been one or two challenges where after spending three hours trying to puzzle through it, a breakthrough is made and I actually cheer. Like full on cheer. That my friends, is the sign for me that this is something I can have passion about. Pairing has been a means of validation for me in seeing that joining this program was the right call.</p>
<h3 class="section-heading">Feedback's a %#@&$</h3>
<p>You know that whole paybacks a "you know what line?" Well feedback isn't anything like that. I just like to say it. Feedback has been a pleasant surprise for me so far. I didn't expect to be getting any negative feedback really but I definitely wasn't expecting how above and beyond my peers have gone in writing feedback. Each piece that I've recieved has been very well spoken and very nice. Peers do their best to include actionable feedback along with the (much easier to write) specific and kind feedback. However, oftentimes it's pretty tough to do! I have to imagine that as we go through the program getting better and better with the material, we'll also get better and better with actionable feedback. I find it difficult to write someone else who's on the same page as me in their learning feedback on what they can do better when I myself am not in any way an expert. I still have tried my best to include actionable feedback pertaining to my partners work style or demeaner, but I want to be able to help more! I'm excited for the days when I'm knowledgable enough with this stuff to really help my peers.</p>
<p>In the feedback I've been recieving, the most oft mentioned issue is that I should speak up about my own ideas more often and also be sure we're switching roles when driving and navigating. I've really been trying to get better at this because I know it's going to be a big part of the program. I'm also really excited to start pairing in person because I believe that will make the process much easier for me. For now the plan is to continue on course and get better each and every pairing.<br>Thanks for reading!<br>- Ricky</p>