---
layout:     post
title:      "A Very Real Threat"
date:       2014-10-27 12:00:00
author:     "Ricky Thomas"
header-img: "img/post-bg-01.jpg"
---

<p><span style="font-size:3em">T</span>he United States of America contains people from everywhere in the world. People of different sizes, color, and hundreds of other unique qualities. With all these different types of people sharing the same land, stereotyping becomes an inevitability. Unfortunately, people are mean. Some stereotypes are harmless, like saying all teenage boys love video games. Do they really? Probably not but it doesn't matter. The negative stereotypes are the ones that matter and from them we are under constant threat.</p>
<h3>Stereotype Threat</h3>
<p>This is a concept that is mainly discussed in regards to education or the workplace where an individual feels that they are part of a stereotype and because of that end up performing at a limited capacity. For example, when I was in college, I was very out of shape. I was in the Theatre program and I was always auditioning for the school shows. I remember a few instances where I wanted to audition but the part that I really wanted was traditionally played by someone not so overweight. When I got up on that stage, because I felt like I might not even be considered, I would mess it up. I would leave those auditions feeling like I could have done way better. It may have been a simple mistake sure, but the idea of sterotype threat is that I may have subconciously made myself perform at a lower level. I was feeling self-concious and hopeless, so yeah I would say that the threat is real.</p>
<p>The articles I read when researching for this blog post offered up plenty more stereotypes and how they are under threat but I'm not going to go into all that here. It's clear as day to me that when we arrive at DevBootcamp it will be a very diverse group of people. Personally, I'm thrilled. You see, growing up in a small town in Western New York I was never surrounded by much diversity. But after living in NYC for a few years I've met and worked with people from around the globe. Each experience I've had with someone from another culture or ethnic group has opened my eyes. There are so many types of people and everyone has just as much right to be here as I do. No more, no less.</p>
<p>During my time at DevBootcamp I hope that everyone feels comfortable and that noone falls under stereotype threat. If it does occur, I honestly wouldn't mind sitting down for coffee or drinks with any other member of our group and talking about it. Everyone should have the same opportunity to make it through this program! If you're feeling like you are being left behind because of a stereotype, tell someone. I know if it were happening to me I would definitely talk to the staff and/or my cohort.</p>
<p>I did eventually get one of those parts typically played by someone thinner and I played that role just as good as anyone else could've. I still remember the feeling though. Hopeless. There was just no way. Well, I'm a firm believer that no matter who you are or where you come from, if you work hard for something long enough and don't let foolish opinions bring you down, anything is possible. I've lost over 100 pounds since college. But many, many, many times while I was losing that weight I wanted to stop. I wanted to grab the nearest box of GirlScout cookies and hide behind my computer. I was always talking to my friends and family about it though. They kept me going. It didn't matter that I was a 'fat guy,' because it was possible to change. That change can only be made possible after you've changed inside of yourself. Once you accept that it can be done, you can make it into reality. So please fellow boots, if at anytime you're feeling under stereotype threat let's hang out and talk about it. Because the people who have been there through the hard times and kept me positive are the ones that I'll never be able to thank enough.<br>
  Can't wait to start this thing in person!<br>
  - Ricky</p>
